right so as you
like let go of that stuff and you start
focusing on yourself like as you start
like just allowing yourself to be this
human that you are
instead of failing to be that what you
want to be people find that attractive
that's the huge paradox
all right so posted by machine gun
wizardry
i believe i'm going to be a virgin for
life because i'm ugly
every insult says this but i think i'm
the exception and it's true
i know how egoistic and pitiful that
sentence reads at first glance but i
think it's true i have a lazy eye and a
crooked nose i was born with it and
without success i have never been able
to get past a first date
i'm 26 and every year i lose hope more
and more i know there's things i could
do to improve my chances i'm overweight
5 11 and 273 pounds but i can't find the
motivation to do it because i don't
think it would make a difference
i know dr k talks frequently about how
in cell mindset is a delusion but most
of the people he talks to aren't as ugly
as they believe they are i'm
conventionally ugly
i'm deformed and i don't ever feel any
attraction from women i'm around and
been friends with
besides even if i did magically wake up
tomorrow a new man with a new face i'm
so broken from years of rejection and so
romantically stunted from years of no
success that even if i could i'd be so
behind i wouldn't know what to do
or read body language
i'm always just going to be the 26 plus
year old virgin if i even if i did get
laid i'm branded
being so late to the game makes me feel
like i'm branded a virgin loser for life
i usually don't think about it but
lately it's been rough i've been
thinking about suicide here and there
and sometimes i feel close to it but i
don't want to live my whole life alone
i'm not looking for advice i just need
to vent because i can't talk to any of
my friends and i don't want them to see
how much of a depressed loser i am
i rather have been born looking
literally like anyone else than this
thanks for reading and i hope you all
had a lovely new year
okay
so let's upvote this
all right
so
sometimes when people feel like they're
going to be alone forever they feel like
they're ugly
or they feel like objectively
um
they have like no shot
right and they can even acknowledge that
if i got into shape
if i changed my mindset
like all that stuff like i understand
that technically that improves my
chances but i'm so far beyond
help
that objectively i'm screwed
and the truth is like
i know it's going to sound kind of
bizarre but i'm inclined to agree with
that person right so this is where
we have to be kind of careful here for a
second so what some people may say
in response to this is you're entitled
to your feelings right you're entitled
to feel that way like it's okay to feel
like you're screwed
and i want you all to think a little bit
for a second
if i were to respond to this person and
say you're entitled to your feelings is
that validating or invalidating
what does that actually mean
what do you all think
if i were to tell this person you're
invalid you're valid you're entitled to
your feelings
right what are we actually telling this
person what's the signal that we send to
this person we say you're entitled to
your feelings
so it's kind of tricky because for a lot
of people if you say you're entitled to
your feelings what you're sort of
telling them is like it's just all in
your head right these are just your
feelings it's not real
it's just like all in your head like oh
it's like oh you feel hurt oh you're
like it's valid that you feel hurt
doesn't mean that you are hurt
but you're allowed to feel that way
so there's something really interesting
going on which is that i've noticed that
people are starting to use
the language of entitlement to feelings
as a way to invalidate people's
experiences
right it's kind of weird
so let's just try to so we're going to
try i know it's kind of weird but it but
i'm sort of inclined to kind of agree
with this person now i don't think that
they're hopeless but i agree with a lot
of their premises
and if you if you are someone who
feels objectively like you understand
that mindset works for under peop other
people like you understand that like any
one of these things can improve your
chances but you still feel hopeless i
don't think you're actually wrong
and at the same time i don't think
things are quite as hopeless i think the
situation is as you describe it
and i do not agree with your conclusion
i'll agree with your premise because in
a lot of these situations what people
will do is they'll like dispute the
premise oh it's like actually not that
bad and we kind of see this it in this
post as well where he kind of says
you know
um i know dr k talks frequently about
how the incel mindset is is a delusion
so i wouldn't start by saying that this
person is delusional right i don't think
they're actually delusional i think that
their conclusions are incorrect
but like who am i to say that this
person is delusional right like i don't
know what this person looks like i don't
know what this person's experiences have
been
so let's just try to understand like
what is going on with this person and
what we can do about it
so the first thing is this person says
that i'm 26
okay
no sexual experience
missed the boat
right spawned too late
late to the party
things got patched and i wasn't able to
get the fat loots from the exploit
okay
so they're lack motivation
they have a lazy eye
they have a crooked nose
like they're pointing out too like
legitimate physical what we call
deformities their word
that most people don't have right these
are things that are like minus one
penalty to dating like that's like a
pretty like legitimate concern
overweight
right we don't really know much about
uh you know their professional standing
education things like that maybe they're
rich maybe they're poor we don't know
anything about that so let's steer clear
of that stuff
and then the last thing is that they
feel so broken
right
they like they've been rejected so much
that even if they could fix all of these
other things that like this sense of
brokenness and the sense of rejection is
too hard to fix
now let's try to understand this
person's mindset so what they're kind of
saying is like i'm screwed so this
results in
i'm screwed
and now i'm gonna ask y'all like let's
be a little bit honest here for a second
like
you know how screwed is this person like
it doesn't look
optimistic right they've got a lot of
stuff going against them they don't know
how to read body language they have no
experience they've got a crooked nose
they're overweight they have lazy eye
they lack the motivation to like help
themselves
so it's like natural like i think it's
not stupid to arrive at this conclusion
i disagree with it i think there's a lot
that you can do
but let's start by like at least
acknowledging that this isn't just your
feelings like this person objectively
has the deck sacked against them like
can we kind of
acknowledge that for a moment
so now now here's the problem
is that when you are this screwed
our brain
when it's trying to determine so like
let's talk about motivation so like
people are saying okay like this person
should be you know should start working
out start doing this and start doing
this then you can get better you can get
better right there's a lot of solutions
that people will offer
go to the gym
you can fix that
right go to a therapist
go do coaching if there's no illness
like right so you can like do coaching
and understand about yourself and like
get motivated and all that kind of crap
right but all these solutions
i would even toss a couple of others on
there so there's like surgery you can do
for lazy eyes
depends on what's causing the lazy eye
you know
there's also surgery you can do for
crooked noses
right it's it's possible i'm not
necessarily saying you should do it i'm
not recommending it
but there's a lot you know there's a lot
that you could do
so why is this person lacking motivation
if there are so many different things
that they can do
right so that that's a common experience
sometimes like
so so let's talk about this for a second
so the more things you can do to improve
your life
the more overwhelmed you are the more
solutions you have so people think that
you're hopeless because you lack
solutions
but the truth is that the most hopeless
people have the most solutions
there's like way too much stuff to do
it's not actually that you're hopeless
because you lack solutions it's because
you're hopeless because you're
overwhelmed and then you're like get
into the procrastination mode you guys
get this the closest thing to this
person's psychology is someone who's a
chronic procrastinator
because there's a lot that they can do
but it's just too much to handle
and so they're almost like i want you
all to think about this as like a
procrastination problem as opposed to
like a no solutions problem because
there's actually tons of solutions
you can like
you know read books about dating you can
work on your self-confidence you can
like you know focus on yourself
you can become confident work on your
confidence
right like you can these are all the
things that you can do but why don't you
do them it's because there's it's too
overwhelming
now let's try to understand what what
does that mean overwhelming like how
does that work in our brain so our brain
is very good at making calculations and
it's like really good at figuring out
what is worth doing and what is not
worth doing
right so like i'm not going to go
outside and like hunt for ducks
because my brain knows that my
likelihood of finding being able to hunt
for a duck is pretty low i don't know
how to do that so i'm not going to go
engage in that behavior
our brain is very good at figuring out
what we can accomplish and what we can't
accomplish so let's understand what's
going on in the brain of this person
so if we say go get surgery
but what about all these things
right like
this is left undone this is left undone
and this is left undone therefore
surgery is not gonna fix my problem
therefore i'm not gonna do it
okay but like what about my getting
going to the gym
yeah like even if i did that this is not
gonna get done this is not gonna get
done this is not gonna get done and this
is not gonna get done so it's like this
is gonna be insufficient to fix my
problem
so i'm not gonna do it
i feel broken and rejected okay go to
therapy
okay sure like if i go to therapy and i
feel less broken and rejected like i'm
still gonna have the lazy eye i'm still
gonna have the crooked nose i'm still
gonna be fat it's not going to be enough
so i'm not going to do it
right
like and even if i like
have like if i get surgery and i lose
weight and stuff like that i'm still
going to have no sexual i'm going to be
a 26 year old virgin like nothing is
going to change that
and so the reason we feel overwhelmed is
because any step we take is not enough
right and i want you guys to think about
when you're procrastinating for finals
it's like when you've got so much stuff
to do i know i'm actually personally
experiencing this now where i feel
paralyzed because i have so much crap to
do like i've noticed this in a way that
i haven't noticed in a very long time
where it's like there's just so much to
i don't even know where to get started
and when you don't know where to get
started you can't do anything
and if you can't do anything you stay
stuck
right and then we procrastinate then we
go back to our coping mechanism okay so
like this is too much so what am i gonna
do
play games
pornography
here we go
i'm gonna advance the clock
right
i'm gonna advance the clock i can get an
rpg i'm going to wait 24 hours but like
your situation is still the same
so how do you deal with this
right and i think the answer is is kind
of interesting and it's it's old stuff
that people say that they say things
like focus on yourself and and you know
focus on your confidence and things like
that which i think is the answer
but
it's not i can can't just tell you just
focus on like what does that mean
practically like what's going to go on
in your brain practically if i tell you
to focus on yourself
right
so i'm going to kind of tell you all a
story
so when i
started residency i got married my first
year at like towards the end of my first
year of medical school
so when i was like
when i started residency so i'm a doctor
i'm working in a hospital
and i kind of noticed something weird so
when i was growing up like i didn't get
any female attention
in college i tried to get some female
attention and it went horribly
and then like you know even in my middle
years like i i had a girlfriend who was
awesome and stuff and that was great
um
but like kind of the couple years before
medical school it wasn't like i was
getting you know i wasn't like talking
to girls or girls didn't seem that
interested in me
and then
you know i got married
and then during med school then like i
didn't have to worry about any of that
crap anymore and so i got married and i
like had this woman that i loved and we
were happy and so like i started you
know doing things just like for the sake
of doing them like i wasn't worried
about any of that other crap i wasn't
trying to look for a girlfriend i wasn't
flirting so like if i met a girl
like in school
like i didn't care if she was pretty i
didn't care if she was ugly i didn't
care if she was single i didn't care
like about any of that crap
like i don't care like it's just like
i'm gonna interact with this person
based on the circumstances of our
interaction
and then something like magical happened
i started becoming like a warm and
pleasant human being
and then i go to the hospital and then
there's like a lot of people at the
hospital right and so i'm like
interacting with people and i tend to be
like kind of warm and funny and upbeat
and stuff like that and then like i kind
of noticed i started getting like female
attention
and i was kind of confused by that
because i had never had really female
attention before
you know i i still think to this day
that
you know the girlfriend thing and the
wife thing was that was a fluke like it
was just like a one-off
right i don't think i i mean i guess i
did some things good but
and so then i started to realize like oh
like why is this happening and it's just
like i'm allowing myself to you know be
my best self like i'm just being my best
self
and i'm not worried about dating anyone
i'm not worried about getting into
anyone's pants so i'm just like you know
if i see someone and i like someone's
shirt like i can compliment like a nurse
on her shirt i'd be like that shirt
looks i mean you don't do that it's a
stupid example cause they all wear
scrubs
but you know you can just compliment
someone you can say hey like you know
looks like you got a haircut looks
fantastic you can say that
you're just like you just be a nice
human being
and as you start being a nice human
being and you get the [ __ ] out of your
own head
because that's an important part right
like you start attending to other people
like you start to come across as
confident
and then i'm also focusing on yourself
so i'm like trying to you know exercise
and like you know i'm just like trying
to be a decent human being all on all on
my own
and the funny thing is that by focusing
on yourself by focusing on being a
decent human being
and not worrying about
dating anyone
i was like
found a ridiculous amount of like female
attention which i had never experienced
before and then i was confused and i was
like this is because i'm a doctor
because the doctor probably has
something to do with it but it's a
common myth that just because you become
a doctor does not mean that like the
opposite sex will start drooling all
over you or the same sex if you're
that's your thing
sure it's kind of attractive but it's
not gonna fix all this other crap
and so then like the problem here is
that you're going to be stuck
as long as you're trying to like
you know
get with someone
so if your goal is this
none of these steps will be sufficient
and then your brain will tell you
there's no point in trying because
getting with someone
oh let's see if that
shows up
so getting with someone like is too big
of a problem to solve and since that's
the problem you're trying to solve
your motivation is gonna completely
disappear because nothing you do will be
enough because i agree with your premise
and so the paradox here is that like
this is what keeps you stuck
so this is where also like if you're
procrastinating like you can't solve you
can't fix it all at once
so the only way forward is to stop
trying to fix it
and this is where things get a little
bit tricky because
stop trying to fix it can mean one of
two things it can mean becoming hopeless
or it can mean changing your goal
so forget about everything else and just
focus on this
right like are you happy with the way
that your body is like forget about
women forget about sexual attraction
forget about dating forget about
everything else are you internally happy
with this
is this something you are happy with
and if the answer is no
change it
right let the outcome be something that
is like absolutely much more close to
what you can do
or even like let go of the outcome
completely which i'm not sure that this
person can do
but like understand that this is not the
goal over here like this is the goal
right if you like if you have a lazy eye
like there may be medication that you
can get or there may be surgery you can
do like you may be able to do that if
you have a difficulty with driving i
don't know where what part of the world
you live in but like generally speaking
you know people will do things like you
can get those kinds of surgeries and
they'll be covered
if you've got double vision and you
drive or like there are all kinds of
different things
if you're feeling you know you're
worried about being broken and rejected
like you can go to therapy just because
you don't want to feel broken anymore
like it has nothing to do with women it
has nothing to do with being alone and
this is the biggest problem that this is
how we shoot ourselves in the foot is we
try to set a goal
or we don't try we end up setting a goal
for ourself
that involves so many different
variables that we create an unsolvable
problem
and when faced with an unsolvable
problem we feel overwhelmed we feel we
procrastinate we feel no motivation
and then we end up not solving our
unsolvable problem which is not a
delusion
like this person isn't delusional like
they're smart they're like not an idiot
right they've like accurately
concluded they've like figured this out
now the problem is you can say but okay
dr k if i start working on myself is
that the way that you i end up with
someone who's i say yes that's the way
you end up with someone
but the problem is if that is your
target in your mind literally the
equation in your mind will not let you
engage in it
it cannot be the outcome that you're
chasing
because if you chase that outcome
nothing will be sufficient it'll never
be sufficient
and so when people say focus on yourself
like how do you do that i know it's kind
of weird but what you do is you give up
on it sure give up on finding someone i
sure as well know that i did
and that when i met my girlfriend is
bizarre
but giving up on it doesn't mean suicide
giving up on it means finding a
different goal just let go that goal
right grieve it
so when you're when you're faced with an
unsolvable situation you've got two
options
hopelessness and grief
and what you need to do is grieve it say
sucks for me i will be alone for the
rest of my life so be it
then the question becomes what can i do
in this life that will give me some
shred of happiness what can i take some
pride in
what can i do for myself that'll like do
something for me
like i don't know maybe five years from
now i'm gonna commit suicide but
people are gonna be able to lift the
casket
because i ain't gonna be overweight when
they put me in the ground
right like i know it's kind of morbid
but i'm serious like there are things
that you can take pride in in this life
right even if you're single like there
are things that you can do you could try
to be a better human being for other
people
you can
feel less broken you can like be happy
with what you see when you look in the
mirror
like even if you're broken on the inside
you can take pride in what you see when
you look in the mirror every day and
that could be that could mean surgery
for your nose it could mean losing
weight even if you're unhappy with what
you see when you look in the mirror you
can be happy with what your body is
capable of when you jump into the ocean
that you can swim for a long amount of
time you can feel
amazing for climbing to the top of a
mountain there's absolutely all kinds of
stuff you can do
and the big paradox here
is that as you start doing those things
this becomes more likely
but this is the really tricky thing is
that we can't we're not going to win
this game with our mind like we're
really not the mind will win all the
time
so if you keep that as your goal so it's
kind of weird but i'd say like very
practically
when there are too many things that you
have to do
to accomplish something
the mind has a lot of difficulty with
motivation and it's just going to feel
overwhelmed and procrastinate
and you're not wrong
in believing that things feel very very
far away and so that's why i would say
that like you know i agree with you that
it's almost reasonable to be hopeless
and so this what i'd say is like let go
of it right let go of hope
doesn't mean you have to be despair
but you can let go of rope you could
just set that whole thing aside
and you can try to think about okay like
is my life defined by this one thing
because if it is then i can understand
why people feel suicidal
but the truth is there's more to life
than relationships there just is more to
life than relationships
right if if all life was was
relationships everyone who is in a
relationship would be perfectly happy
but people aren't perfectly happy
we've seen posts today about you know
people being unhappy at work people
being unfulfilled people not
following their creative pursuits
people being unsatisfied with how you
know what their mmr is on an online
video game there are all kinds of things
in life
and so if if
relationships are too hard to solve then
let it go
and start fixing the other stuff
and when you're ready a relationship
will come you'll be surprised like
literally it'll come to you
you need to stop chasing it
because it's that chasing that sort of
like makes you come across as like
desperate
that is like unattractive to people in
the first place
right so as you
like let go of that stuff and you start
focusing on yourself like as you start
like just allowing yourself to be this
human that you are
instead of failing to be that what you
want to be people find that attractive
that's the huge paradox
is that if i try to be something else
by definition i'm gonna be insufficient
because i'm not there yet
and that gap that i feel about myself is
gonna be something that other people
pick up on and as i let go of that thing
and i allow myself to be what i am i
embrace who i am you can still work
towards things by all means but you can
start to say to yourself you know what
tired of being 273 pounds and 5 11.
so i'm going to go to the gym i'm not
going to try to pick up chicks
i'm not doing it for them because if
you're doing it for them and it doesn't
work out the first time that you expend
effort and it doesn't you've lost 10
pounds there's a cute girl at the gym
you ask her out she says no or you don't
even ask her out because this person
wouldn't even ask around they'd talk to
her
but then they'd find that oh like now
she's talking to some guy who's more fit
than i am suddenly your motivation is
the girl and you're not gonna work out
because you've lost 10 pounds and like
screw it she's talking to this other guy
so gigi i'm
leaving your motivation is going to
disappear you are letting your
motivation be determined by the outcomes
and whims of another human being
like
that's
that's screwed
right so like
why do that
because i don't want to be alone
well
with love too bad you are right now
and so like learn how to be alone it's
another huge thing
people don't really understand that like
a big part of being in a healthy
relationship is learning how to be alone
right you have to be like comfortable
like if you want to be in a really
healthy relationship you need to be like
comfortable and
happy with yourself
because like a relationship
makes things harder not easier like like
the more grounded you are
the easier things are going to be
not the harder things are going to be
anyway
so you know if you fall into the
category of feeling that
any relationship you're just too far
gone in too many dimensions like i know
it sounds kind of weird but like
you may be
and yet that doesn't mean that you have
to be hopeless
right because at the end of the day like
just because your logical analysis is
correct doesn't mean that your
conclusion has to be that conclusion
there's another route and if you feel
like unmotivated because there are too
many dimensions of your life and you
don't know where to start like that's
also like completely normal i'm not just
saying like your feelings are valid like
as if you know your analysis is
incorrect and your feelings are all
coloring your analysis and you're
actually an idiot but you're entitled to
your feelings so
you know like no like i think your
feelings are valid and also your like
logical analysis is valid but i don't
think it's the complete story
and as you start reframing away from
that goal which makes any mo any effort
useless so if any effort is useless you
are not going to be motivated towards
anything
so you have to start making your effort
mean something and how do you ever make
your effort mean something you let go of
that goal you grieve it you're going to
be alone for the rest of your life but
you know what this world has more to
offer than relationships
this is where you say but what can i
truly be happy without it i don't know
but neither do you because you haven't
tried to be happy without a relationship
all you've been caught up in is
relationship relationship relationships
so who the [ __ ] knows
so by all means
give up hope on the relationship but
don't give up hope on life
and start working on what you can work
on
let your goals be small let your goals
be insufficient to accomplish that that
great great
monumental task that is too far out of
your reach just let go of it
don't try to climb a mountain
try to climb one step up
right because if you're looking to the
top of a mountain i take one step
forward it's like
literally it looks exactly the same
even though technically i'm one step
closer it is looks the view is exactly
the same you guys could try this
go look at a mountain and then take one
step towards it and then one step back
does the view of the mountain change no
it doesn't change at all
and this is the the big scam of the mind
is that the mind is like so focused on
the outcome because that's what you're
focused on it's going to destroy your
motivation and keep you stuck where you
are
so let go of the goal
and start focusing on yourself like
literally like that's the advice right
that's what people say people don't know
how to do that but this is why you have
to focus on yourself you can't can't if
you focus on that you're never going to
achieve it
but there's something you can do for
yourself there's something you can take
pride in
find out what that thing is and move
towards it
and you'll be surprised where you end up
but no guarantees
you